I'm going to go back in many decades ago, Monday, March 6, 1972.
Some of you in the class weren't alive.
I think I know of one for sure, it was alive, that's inside joke, not inside story,
but anyway, then along with my wife, we had the privilege, and that was rare, unless you
were a Bethelite, to attend the graduation of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead, but it was
the 52nd class. So we're in the assembly hall, jam-packed there in New York City, and just enjoying
what a privilege for us to sit here and enjoy this program at this 52nd class. Now here we are
almost 100, just two-shot classes later, 150th class, and now we're grateful because many are tied
in live as we speak, but then the rest of the brotherhood is going to have it available in a few months.
So boy, things have changed, and they enjoy that privilege, but that was a rare privilege,
and remember where the nor was the chairman of the program, and certainly he just loved Gilead.
I mean, that, you've got to give him, of course, you're overused him mightily to get it all started there,
and 43, the first one, but knowing that the beast was coming out,
Jehovah Blessham said, yeah, we need a missionary school. It was a missionary school for years,
but anyway, the thing I wanted to mention is, I remember an outstanding talk. I'd heard
where the Fred Franz, the summer before at the Yankee Stadium Convention,
but we were a little closer there in the assembly hall, and I'll tell you what, I was just glued
to him. If you had the privilege to hear him, Jehovah Blessham had a blessed, beautiful mind. He could
just quote these scriptures, and I've told folks now, if you don't pay attention to stay with them,
you're going to get lost. He's going to lose you, but if you pay attention, it was thrilling.
Just the hero, poor, out his heart, because it was all written on his figurative heart.
But he discussed it. He's asked, he's five. That's why I was thinking to bring it up for your
class here, because this is really directed to you. And he spoke there about vows.
And those first seven verses, dreams are mentioned. And I appreciate it, because it just struck me
when he mentioned that the dreams don't refer to dreams one has while they're sleeping because
of a busy day. Now, you can't get that on your own. Just reading at Cleasy Asties with whatever
version you had. It had to do with getting sidetracked, with personal pursuits, these dreams.
These are the things they're doing. And that would be vanity, as we'd said then.
So let's just take a moment for you here in the class. And others are going to follow along
on Cleasy Asties five. Just touch on some of the nice things. And of course, you can
now, you don't do it right now, but you can do it later. You have access to the research guide
and in depth understanding of this wisdom and Ecclesiastes. And Brother Francis addressed it.
For example, verse one, watch your step. So this is for here, you are soon to be graduates.
Joe, hope it's saying, watch your step. Don't stop doing that. You have thus far, so continue to watch
your step. And he mentions those morally stupid ones. That's not you. You're going to avoid that.
And then I love this in verse two. Do not be quick with your mouth.
Boy, there's a lot of people in the world who benefit from that counsel. That's true.
It's like, does he or she ever shut up? I mean, they must, I bet you they talk in their sleep.
They just won't shut up. Then anyway, don't be quick with your mouth, particularly in context here.
When you're speaking to Jehovah, oh boy, that's some good things to give to this. You brothers
that will speak in public, but you sisters too, when it's personal with your prayers to Jehovah,
don't be quick with your mouth. When you approach the sovereign of the universe,
your words should be few. You do not impress God with vocabulary. He's impressed with sincerity of
heart, loves those that love him and all different languages. He treasures those prayers.
And then he mentions this about a dream comes from too many preoccupations in the revised
Bible here. Too many cares. So this idea isn't just dreams from a busy, busy day. This preoccupation
with self is being warned against here. Don't do it. They do not do it. Don't be preoccupied
with yourself. And those that are there, many words from them, but be careful. You know,
you have the privilege now. You'll be praying more in public. Probably then you have
ever before. You get privileges, you know. And when you're praying to Jehovah,
sometimes we don't want to be counseling, criticizing prayers. We try to be careful with that,
but sometimes you even hear a prayer at best, and it's like, okay, we're trying to eat breakfast here.
And I told folks, it's like, you know, I just can't help it. Jesus is there. Most eloquent
person to walk the planet. And the meal comes. He raises his eyes to heaven and gave things.
Amen. Let's eat. I mean, there are other times you want to pour out your heart and all that,
but you're not praying to the audience. You're talking to the sovereign of the universe.
The council is, you know, you know, now I'm a Gillian graduate. Your brother's particularly,
I might have longer prayers. I hope not. I sure hope not. Unless they're private. But then he gets
into something crucial. And it's just so important to keep my in verse four. Let's read four and
five, whenever you make a vow to God, do not delay to pay it. For he finds no pleasure in the stupid
ones, morally stupid, then very clear what you vow, pay, what you vow, pay. And then it's better for
you not to vow than to vow and not pay. So this is serious counsel. And the warning don't allow
you're most to cause you to sin. Now, so when it comes to vows and some of you are married,
well, you had the vow. You always have to hold onto that. That's not a light matter what you
have got. And in the other vows, be careful. If you're going to make a vow, it's between you
and him. But see, notice here, do not allow in verse six to your mouth to cause you to sin.
And do not say before the angel, you see, think about this, that it was a mistake. So Jehovah has
the angels doing all sorts of things. We don't even begin to know the things that are always going
on all the time. Jehovah served as holy angels. It's priceless. But see, angels are
according to this sign to check on these things. So you don't say to the angel, well, look,
I made a mistake. Forgive me. You made a vow. But see, it shouldn't be because an angel is going to
check if that's Jehovah's direction. It should be because of our love for Jehovah.
When you make a vow, you know, there was marriage or whatever, your love for Jehovah,
that's what cements the vow. It matters. See, it matters to him. So then finally,
verse seven, for just as many preoccupations lead to dreams, so too many words lead to futility.
So good counsel. You are so filled with the word of God. This is a special class and
gilly. There's a special school. We have other schools, SKE. I'll mention something later about
that. But this is unique to have men Jehovah's appointed to instruct teaching committee,
selects them totally whole sold and devoted to Jehovah God teaching you during the class.
And you're going over all these things in the word of God. So it's all in there and it's just special.
So you think Jehovah that you have this education and you're going to move forward to glorify him.
See, and that's pretty well similar to what it's mentioned here in the last sentence in verse seven,
but fear the true God. So you soon to be graduates, keep those words in your heart.
Just fear the true God in the days ahead and stay away from these kind of dreams about self
preoccupation, you know. No, not for you. And otherwise your education was futile.
Not good. And I don't see that in any of you and not in applying, but such wise counsel
from Jehovah God in his word. So there's much, much more there. Enjoy thinking about it with a little
tool we have there with the research guide.